welcome to another edition of AMA I am
super excited that you guys have joined
me today we're gonna be going through
your questions and as always if this
feed is adding value please do share it
that's how we grow this community which
is our primary focus as you guys well
know for us to pull off what we're
trying to do with impact theory we need
to get as many people into this funnel
as humanly possible we have recently
crossed 100,000 on YouTube we are aiming
for 115,000 by October first I'm not
feeling good about our chances but we do
have a contest going on right now there
is a video that somebody will drop into
the feed here today if you go to that
video if you send your friends to that
video I should say up I'm being flagged
my man Agent Smith coming to the rescue
so he is going to drop that into the
feed have your friends go to that video
subscribe to the channel and then drop
your name into the comments section to
enter yourself for a chance to win no
matter where you are in the world we
will fly you here to Los Angeles to
spend a day with me so let's do it
let's get crazy let's get those subs
1:15 that was our goal October 1st and
we're on our way we have a long way to
go and we only have three days to get
there I will say however that the
contest runs for three weeks out so
there's that all right without further
ado the first question comes from Eve T
onsen from YouTube the more I look into
self development the more I resent the
weaknesses of the general population how
can I come from a place of compassion
instead of feeling annoyed most of the
time alright well that is a question
about a controlling your brain chemistry
and be really having a different frame
because if as you grow more powerful and
as you get better at executing on things
there's a couple things you can have to
remember one is if you let that make you
feel that you're above people 1 everyone
is gonna think you're a dick so be super
careful of that because that is the
fastest way to not get what you want
from life and I know a lot of the times
people think that that stuff is
invisible
and the reason that you think that
attitude is invisible is because you get
away with it half of the time the other
half of the time you're rapidly earning
the reputation of being a jerk so be
super super careful of that the other
thing is I think it's it is a way more
emotionally pleasing frame of reference
to have to look at people and say I was
once there and since I was once there
then why would I judge people that are
still there
in fact personally I turn inwards and
look at myself and my effectiveness as a
catalyst to really drive change and if
I'm not effective at driving change then
I'm gonna take that responsibility on
myself also it is just the human
condition that people get trapped in
their minds which is why obviously
impact Theory exists also and this is
hard but if you can feel deeply
emotionally connected to somebody that
struggles with that problem if you've
never struggled with it yourself it
becomes really really hard to judge them
so take my obsession with people that
are struggling with weight obesity
because so many people in my family that
I love so much have struggled with that
I can't both love them and think they're
bad people at the same time so that's
that first seed of real and sort of
limbic level compassion and then the
other is you can just choose to be
compassionate that when the annoyance
arises up in you you can say look I
refuse to accept that I refuse to give
in to that on a neurochemical level
instead I'm going to look at this person
with the compassion I am literally just
I'm going to understand I have not been
perfect and therefore I'm not gonna pass
judgment on other people that aren't
perfect it force yourself to come back
to that back to that back to that every
time regardless of whether your mind
kicks up the annoyance or the looking
down at them you should be able to
literally talk yourself out of that
stance it's not a very helpful stance
anyway also a lot of times it's being
driven from your own disdain for
yourself for moments of weakness and I
think that this all starts with self
compassion so if you're loving yourself
first and having compassion for all of
your weaknesses and coming failures it
becomes much easier with other people
all right Jay K H from YouTube without
insulting any or many of your great
guests which person's
hands out if any as someone that left
you in awe so the very easy go to answer
there is David Goggins that does not
mean that I haven't been blown away by
the not only generosity of the people
that have come on the show and just
shared with us everything that they've
learned it just so happens my particular
personality that one really really spoke
to me so I am a huge believer because
it's exactly what I needed is custom
tailored to me I'm a huge believer in
holding oneself accountable kicking
oneself in the ass really pushing
yourself trying to become truly
extraordinary that's just my personal
obsession and I have found that the only
way to get there is to really really
hold yourself accountable and nobody
does that better than David Goggins so
researching him truly changed me I went
so deep in this world that I will say
that I was probably more changed in the
research process than by the time that I
actually met him and he got on set which
is great it means that people like that
can really move and motivate you without
ever needing to meet them but yeah he's
amazing another person that I had on
inside quest but I've not yet head back
on impact theory is a guy named Feroz
this is a hobby I always feel compelled
to mention his name he is a true warrior
philosopher which was something that
really captures my imagination I think
the way that he thinks he reminds me of
the modern-day Bruce Lee and I really
won't rest until he is universally
acknowledged as such so he's incredible
and then just the the bevy of
neuroscientists I'm such a geek for that
stuff so I fanboy doubt harder on vs
Roman challenge run then I think anybody
that I've ever had on the show so they
have it all right next Manan Devon
YouTube how do I build the motivation to
study regularly alright so this is
really a question of identity and you've
got to be focused relentlessly on
building your identity on saying this is
the type of person that I want to be so
I use the phrase I'm the type of person
that I'm the type of person that is
motivated I'm the type of person that
when I find myself getting distracted I
bring myself back to the task at hand
I'm the type of person that sets a goal
and then sticks to it I'm the type of
person that is very careful about the
goals that they set so that it's only
something that's very compelling for me
only
very exciting and that so those are
examples if I'm the type of person that
but then the other part of this is that
you need to be really cognizant that
your future needs to be something that
is deeply compelling to you and this is
somehow getting lost and stuff you've
got to love the thing that you're
working your ass off for it like it's
never going to work you're never going
to feel motivation to do [__] you don't
care about newsflash
so make sure that you pick something as
your goal you pick the person that
you're trying to become all things that
really excite you so let's not let that
get lost and I was thinking about that
earlier today so I was prepping for this
Friday's episode of after impact with
Maria Sharapova go check that episode
out and she was talking about how it
like five and a half she tore her
fingernail off she was bleeding
everywhere and her dad was like Jesus we
have to get you home she was like
absolutely not I want to go practice
tennis and I remember thinking whoa
like at not only at five and a half at
fifteen Jesus probably until I was in my
20s that would not have been my reaction
and a bloody fingernail would have been
the excuse to not do anything and then I
had this flash of the one time in my
life where I was eating McDonald's
french fries and I'll never forget and I
so wanted to eat those french fries even
though I started to feel nauseous I
really wanted to finish the fries and on
top of that I was supposed to go to a
friend's house to spend the night so it
was like this magical evening of
McDonald's french fries before I go
spend the night at a friend's house like
it was just I was so excited that I
tried to pretend that I wasn't coming
down with the flu and so that is one of
those stories where whatever it was I
don't remember what friend's house it
was going to so I remember what we were
gonna do or play but let's pretend for a
second that it was video games because
at a certain time in my life I was not
allowed to play video games and so which
may speak to why now I am so interested
but that was something that really
pulled me through
and so when you meaning pulled me
through like the nausea so whatever it
is the difficulties the lack of
motivation whatever it is that you're
trying to
you accomplished when you have a thing
that is pulling you through because
you're legitimately excited about it
that's when things start to happen so I
find that a lot of times lack of
motivation has to do with not
structuring your life in a way where you
actually care about the outcome so find
that thing stop judging yourself because
I think everybody at least sees a
flicker of interest inside of them
something that they they really find
interesting and they want to at least
explore deeper and then for many people
there is truly a deep and glowing
passion something that they love doing
but they judge themselves for and I'll
just stick with video games for a minute
reading a book watching movie whatever
it is that thing that you love doing
nobody has to tell you to do but you
don't think either that it can be a
career or you straight judge yourself
for and think that it's stupid and it's
a waste of time like what could you do
around that universe if it's really
giving you the the sense of well-being
and I choose that word very carefully I
did not say happiness it's giving you a
deep sense of well-being if if that is
arising out of something in your life
find a way to put that at the center of
your life and I think you will find the
vast majority of your motivation
problems go away especially if you've
been focusing on building an identity of
being somebody who sticks with things
alright next one Nia Vash kid Z Nia
vasha kid Z there we go Facebook I'm so
scared to fail is it too late for me to
start I'm 36 am I am I too old for it
the answer is absolutely not so first of
all from my perspective at 36 you're a
spring chicken so I definitely wouldn't
be worried about whether or not you're
too old for something even if you were
56 66 86 it doesn't make sense to me
like think about how long a year really
is so even if you only had a year left I
would say that it's not too late to
really enjoy that year and the reason
that I'm tying a fear of failure to
enjoyment is on the other side of
fearing to fail what you're gonna
realize is that the what you get out of
that failure whether it's deep and
abiding shame or whether it's a really
powerful lesson that now you can pour
into getting better at something that to
me is is the real juice and one once you
have failed and failed just brutally
publicly or whatever you're going to
realize
that on the other side of that you
absolutely can rebuild 100% like even
look at somebody oh god I'm blanking on
her name I can't believe I'm forgetting
her name this is really atrocious but
the woman that had the the scandalous
affair with Bill Clinton God does
anybody remember her name it's like on
the tip of my tongue anyway yes Monica
Lewinsky thank you my boy Ibrahim coming
to the rescue
she said that that that incident
followed her around like tar and there's
that something in that description that
really like gives you the sense of how
long that lasts and even she has rebuilt
her life is now talking about bullying
and really adding value to people's
lives and you want to talk about
something that is is a truly haunting
failure there's that but she's found a
way to find happiness she's found a way
to learn from that she's found a way to
empower other people with that and from
that experience so I'm guessing that
whatever failure you're fearing ranks
way lower on the tar-like follow you
scale than that so once people
understand that you can learn something
very powerful from any failure that's
when it gets interesting so focus on
that what you can learn and understand
that getting better is one of the key
building blocks to happiness what I'll
call fulfillment I think that's a better
word in this case so it's very very
important not to be afraid to go through
that all right Sharad Mohammed Facebook
hey man I am dealing with addiction whoa
how do i how do I think how it's meant
to say how do I overcome this so I am
NOT an expert on addiction I do not
think that I should go deep on this
topic I will say there are amazing
amazing people out there that can really
help you just let's set aside if you
have any shame whatsoever about that set
that aside seek help for sure for sure
on the other side of that is a version
of yourself where you'll be able to deal
with that addiction there's been a lot
of addiction in my family so I've seen
what it can do to people it's pretty
gnarly but I've also seen them rebuild
and just become extraordinary human
beings on the other side of that so go
get help for Swasey it's out there
they're
people that can help you with this all
right miodrag Mickey Milankovitch I
think that's pretty close
be honest with you Facebook what's the
best place to start
what mindset to use when you are living
in a country where everything is
corrupted and you're working for 250 US
dollars and feeding both yourself and
your family yet desperately want to
succeed man we're going back to back
questions that I have absolutely no
expertise in so I have never been stuck
in a country like that so all I can say
is from a mindset perspective I think
the thing you have to focus on is there
is a way and even if that's there is a
way out of this country if that's the
only thing you consider a viable
solution making sure that your mindset
is solution oriented that's the key and
that really is a choice because look if
you look for how the deck is stacked
against you that's all you're gonna see
if you look for how hopeless the
situation is that's all you're gonna see
if on the other hand you focus on there
is always away and I will give you the
example from the famous general Hannibal
who had the job of getting elephants
across the Swiss Alps if I'm not
mistaken
and he said we'll either find a way or
we'll make one and he actually ended up
getting the elephants across the Alps so
that is one of those it is the solution
was born of the mindset if he didn't
believe it was possible he would never
take that first step and this is why I'm
obsessed with this notion that humans
lead with belief the reason he was able
to get elephants over a mountain was
because he chose to believe that it was
possible and he was going to keep
looking for any possibility over under
through around like whatever it takes to
get over that obstacle there there is a
way and super random example but Maria
Sharapova who we just filmed which is
why she's on my mind her father during
the collapse of the Soviet Union her
father got a visa to take her to America
when they weren't giving visas to go to
America and they had to leave her mother
behind for years I can't remember how
many years the mom was left back in
Russia but it wasn't a short period of
time
but that's what he had to do it was the
only way to get his daughter out to give
her the shot that she needed he believed
that Florida was a place to take her and
obviously end up being right as she was
ranked many many times number one in the
world and it's been the highest paid
female athlete but all of this started
she grew up when when she was her mom
was pregnant they were actually living
in the shadow of the Chernobyl disaster
they then flee there they go to Sochi
realized there's no opportunities in
Sochi and he talks a visa agent into
giving him or a customs agent whatever
they're called into giving them the visa
to go and the guy that he happened to
get that was deciding whether or not to
give him the visa also had a daughter
who played tennis which i think is
actually worse for him because the guy
goes look I think my daughter is
exceptionally talented at tennis as well
but I don't think she's a prodigy how do
you know that you're not judging your
daughter through the eyes of a father
and that's it and he still managed to
convince him to give him the visa so
that's but one example of an avalanche
of people that have had just incredible
stories of getting out of terrible
places so again that's not me I don't
have expert in it but there are some
pretty amazing stories all right next
question
Andres Esquivel face book how do you
stop from setting yourself up to fail
how can you keep pushing into the hard
part of your dream all right so I'd
really need more clarity on exactly how
you're setting yourself up to fail but
the the reality is if you actually want
to make your dream come true your
obsessive focus has to be on improvement
so every day every failure every spare
moment that you have needs to be poured
into actually acquiring a better skill
set and this is where I find people
really get lost in mindset it's why I
have an absolute paralyzing terror of
being known as a motivational speaker at
the end of the day the only thing that
matters are your actions the only thing
that matters are the the skills that
you're able to acquire and if you're not
spending every day focused on getting
better and becoming truly extraordinary
then all hope is lost and if you want to
get ahead in life boys and girls I
promise you the only thing you need to
focus on is acts
getting good actually get good that's it
and that's somehow becoming more and
more lost in today's Instagram culture
is people just aren't doubling down and
getting better they're not focusing on
skill acquisition they're not focusing
focused on execution they're they're
trying to build a following before
they've built something and that is
where this gets terrifying and and in
fact I'm gonna coop
Kobe Bryant quote he said booze don't
block dunks but I'm also gonna say this
Cheers
don't make dunks so it doesn't matter
whether people are booing or cheering
you on it doesn't matter if you have a
massive following or not the only thing
that matters is are you actually good at
something
so get so good they can't ignore you
that's the path that's how you stop
yourself from failing all right Edward
Simmons Facebook how do you figure out
your purpose all right this one is very
easy and it goes like this inside of you
right now based on the things that
you've encountered in your life there
are areas of interest that's it there
you're not gonna go inside and discover
that you have this hidden passion or
purpose lying within you what you're
gonna realize is that you have areas of
interest you're going to engage with
those areas of interest those areas of
interest then why there turn into
something that you're legitimately
fascinated by it has completely captured
your attention or it won't if it doesn't
you set it aside you move on to the next
thing engage with it until you find the
one that you're really fascinated by
then you're gonna go into the process of
gaining mastery and in the process of
actually getting so good that they can't
ignore you of acquiring the skillset
that I was just talking about in that
process it's either going to develop
into a passion something where you're
actually good at you've got the whole
Greek notion of techne where something
that you've worked your ass off to
acquire the skills has used to other
people that my friends is when you fall
in love with something when it really
becomes this burning passion it is
something you've been Fanning the flames
the whole way it is not something you're
born with it is not something that
happens by accident and in that passion
you're going to decide at some point is
this sort of a private quiet passion
that I have like I have a passion for
video games I love them you don't have
to remind me to play them but they are
not my purpose
so engaging with that it's very clear to
me I love it I enjoy it it's very fun
but my real purpose in life and I'll
even stick with video games for a second
is to teach other people how to leverage
video games to build a mindset okay and
that focus on helping other people build
a mindset to escape the matrix to see
what happens to the world when hopefully
millions hundreds of millions more
people now have an empowering mindset
than would have had had they not
encountered me and my content that is my
purpose but that was a decision amongst
many things that I really enjoy have a
deep passion for want to engage with him
horrified that I don't get to spend more
time doing those things there are a bevy
of them from you have a deep passion for
reading I could just sit and read about
neuroscience all day and I would be a
very happy camper but at the end of the
day everything comes back to the thing I
have decided is my purpose and that's to
pull people out of the matrix and for
awhile I had decided that my purpose was
to end metabolic disease and so it
really is like you make that decision
and you can change from one to the other
if you want I now spend I'm super glad
that Quest is still going I will
continue to contribute to that cause to
the content but the thing that I will
say is my blinding driving purpose that
I've decided to put at the center of my
life is pulling people out of the matrix
so recognizing that it's a decision is
very very key alright Bruder Roy this
one's from YouTube how can I get to the
point where I say I am NOT some random
average how do you rise above the
statistics or how do you just say that
you're not some random average person so
at the end of the day one humans lead
with belief so you're gonna have to
decide already right now that you're
capable of learning things that are
going to make you capable of the
extraordinary and then go about doing
the hard-ass work of head down and
getting good at something now going back
to where we started all of this that
something needs to be something that's
pulling you through with excitement that
the future becoming that person and
getting good at that thing amps you up
and makes you feel more alive than
anything else but you just have to
decide look every
being it's not true any human being
capable of asking that question I will
just tell you right now you meet minimum
requirements so now it becomes a
question of what do you do with your
potential in what way do you actuate it
so decide right now that you were
capable of transcending the average that
you're not just some statistic that you
can do anything you set your mind to but
then you have to prove that to yourself
by going out and doing it and the notion
of earning credibility with yourself is
hardly ever talked about an absolutely
critical and you're gonna have to earn
that credibility with yourself through
action not a bunch of thought through
actual action all right Manny Oh perfect
YouTube okay I'm gonna take a swell of a
tasty beverage here for him bear with me
all right
this is from men whom I am dieting and
exercising for three months now I've
been able to reduce twenty-two pounds so
I'm assuming you've lost 22 pounds but
now I'm not able to lose any more police
help what do I do
all right so without more specifics it's
virtually impossible to answer that
question
but I would say that as a general rule
the thing that you want to be doing is
learn learn learn so find somebody
that's done it at least once so that
you're not like taking in the cacophony
of noise that is out there find somebody
that was heavy and the way that you were
heavy and that got to the physique that
you want to get to and figure out what
they did learn from them that is that is
the easiest way now there's no
one-size-fits-all but I'm gonna give you
a couple rapid-fire things that I would
do that I think are about as close to
Universal as humanly possible cut out
sugar start with that yes that includes
fruit yes I know that's controversial
I'm just telling you things that I have
that I believe are damn near universal
so you're gonna drop your sugar content
to essentially zero you'll never be able
to get it all the way to zero because
broccoli has sugar in it just to give
you an idea but you're gonna get it
really damn close then I would take out
any and all processed carbohydrates so
yes that means bread yes that means
pasta yes that means rice all of its got
to go
I would boil your life down to either a
vegetarian diet that gets your adequate
protein into it
I've never done that for the record I
just know there's enough people that
have that I'm sure it is very possible I
do not enjoy that way of eating it has
not made me historically feel good so I
would say get a nice lean protein source
like chicken breast
don't put sauce on it broccoli and other
vegetables cruciferous vegetables those
are the ones that I highly recommend
that you look up and then have some sort
of release valve so whether that's one
meal on a Saturday or something like
that where you cheat so you're not going
absolutely crazy don't make it a full
cheat day which I used to and I could
pack on so many calories and in such
horrific macronutrients and ingredients
that it would just have a lingering
effect so I felt like I was taking two
steps forward and 1.99 back so not a
great way to live if you did that if you
eat chicken breast and broccoli you're
going to continue to lose weight also
exercise but as I say you can't outrun a
bad diet all right that is super brief
and way oversimplifying the problem and
I will say that this is blunt-force
trama the prescription that I just gave
you and has absolutely no nuance but
there it is and another thing you might
want to do is start writing down
everything everything that you eat or
drink everything I'm talking if you walk
by the fridge and take a sip of water
write it down because I think you're
gonna see you've probably taken a lot
more calories than you realize like a
lot of people chew gum and don't realize
that it's full of [__] sugar so
things like that all right Andrew
Bernhard face book I'm 36 and run my own
business and always struggled with
organization and procrastination I'm
talking to a doctor on Friday about a
possible ad D diagnosis alright so why
don't we just run through this scenario
assume that the doctor says yes you have
a TD what are you gonna do are you gonna
let them put you on medication which if
you feel that that is necessary try it
man absolutely no judgment now be very
careful I think that being on medication
long-term should really give you pause
so unless you're taking the ATD
medication as a 6 to 12 month like
intervention to like help you get the
neurological rewiring going I would be
very leery to go on medication until I
had really given everything else to try
but I just say that from a longevity lie
neuroprotective standpoint I don't say
it from man if I needed medication I
would take it in a [__] heartbeat and
I will say I take allergy medication
every night and it gives me pause like
I'm actually super tense and I've tried
a few times to stop it and I just end up
getting really bummed up like fast so
but even I like I think it's bad I think
it's bad and I should probably not be
doing it but nonetheless there you have
it so I'm certainly not shy about that
but I think that there are things that
you can do to help yourself
like if a hundred percent of fixing the
problem would require medication what
percentage can you do without the
medication is it 30 or is it 70 because
if you can reduce the problem by 70%
without medication through meditating
through training yourself to always come
back and focus I always come back and
focus so as longtime listeners of my
content know when I was a kid I was
diagnosed with hyperactivity disorder
and the only reason that my mother
didn't get me medicated was because I
could sleep through the night so I feel
like I don't have an easy time
concentrating that's for sure
but I forced myself and one of the ways
that I've gotten good at concentrating
for long periods of time is contracts
and reading contracts I didn't do it I
did it to get good at that and to make
sure that I can never be taken advantage
of from a contractual perspective but
the secondary outcome of me spending
over the last decade learning how to
read contracts is I hate them so much
that it forces me I my mind is
constantly wandering and it forced me to
bring it back bring it back bring it
back and in doing that you find that one
you find tips and tricks so for me this
is going to sound stupid but furrowing
my brow helps me focus - my posture will
impact my level of focus 3 a certain
type of music helps me maintain my focus
channeling aggression helps me maintain
my focus so those are all things that I
found and then like just forcing myself
to constantly come back to being focused
I find that the duration of time that I
can focus gets longer and longer so in
conjunction with seeking out medical
help I would encourage that all right
next up is from Ernest curse man this is
from YouTube have you had difficulty
with concentration both on the macro and
micro level how
could I overcome it literally I just
answered that question so next up is
kanji
Sifu from Facebook I'm dealing with a
difficult time and I listen to you every
day dude I'm honored thank you you
motivate me I know I have potential to
do better and I believe life's got to be
better than this but I feel like
something is holding me back from
jumping any advice all right yes I have
advice and it goes like this act right
now so whatever that thing is literally
literally the only thing stopping you is
you're allowing yourself to stop so
whatever it is right now as you listen
to my voice whatever you've been
contemplating doing but haven't done
just do right now so if it's sending an
email that's gonna force you to do
something if it's saying yes to
something that terrifies you whatever it
right now send the text send the email
book the flight whatever it is pick up
the phone start dialing if you've been
holding yourself back from talking to
somebody yes you're gonna be imperfect
yes you were gonna [__] it up
yes it is gonna be awkward it will maybe
even be very painful it may even set you
back momentarily but the thing you will
realize in all of that is it didn't kill
you it didn't destroy your life it
sucked it was uncomfortable it made you
feel badly about yourself for a minute
because you were so clumsy and awkward
but you took action and if you listen to
me you know that the only thing that
matters is actually now I don't say that
because I have some particular belief
system that I want people to take on I
say that because it's [__] true the
only thing that you will ever get a
result out of in your life is acting it
isn't from thinking it's not
pontificating and those things are good
by the way and I think that thinking
about [__] is awesome but it never
amounts to anything the only thing that
matters is acting so if you said hey I
can either think about this for a really
long time or I can [__] act I will
tell you to act and the reason is the
knock-on effect from a thought
perspective from what you'll learn
perspective from actually acting acting
and doing something is is exponentially
greater than what you will get by
thinking about it and I'm a personalized
to think about [__] but the only thing
that I reward myself for emotionally is
action that's it so act just do it there
that's why that [__] Nike he's saying
stay
around forever because it is so true
just do it alright this next one is from
Kehoe what do we are we guessing are
they be it nummies brush wasy right so
we've got our boy right here my man did
you have any good Vietnamese phrases for
me like what should I be saying right
now
Xin cho if I just said something
horrible like we're gonna have words
after this alright nice alright what was
what is up kid ho what's the most
effective and cost-efficient way to
market a brand new website so I'm a huge
believer in social marketing in
influence or marketing and influencer
marketing goes like this so whatever
world it is that your website is meant
to address if it's an e-commerce website
whatever that product is whatever your
target audience is find the people that
are already speaking to them that
already have influence over those people
go engage with their community really
bring value to them become known in that
community over time if you've added
enough value to them you'll be able to
make and ask and not ask may be as
simple as hey go check out my website
hey give me a piece of advice on my
website or hopefully if your website has
a product that you can give that product
away for free to that influencer and
just ask them to talk about it what we
always said at Quest was look love it or
hate it please just talk about it so if
you hate it tell people you hate it but
if you love it tell people you love it
and that's all we asked and because we
weren't trying to control the
conversation and people knew that we
really believed in our product and we
were just giving it away giving away
giving it away we ultimately gave it to
so many people that the conversation
just started gaining momentum if you're
a content creator get out there start
creating content and if the content
really adds value to people then it's
going to start to gain traction you're
gonna have to send it to people you're
gonna have to do something to get people
to look at it that first time and if
you're a content creator one of the
easiest ways is to reach out to somebody
that's speaking to your audience and say
I want to create a piece of content for
you for your channel for free do that
enough do that for enough people and say
all I want is a link back to my site and
you can really begin to get traction
that way your first people that really
engage with your content if it actually
does add value to them then they're
gonna begin that snowball effect because
they're gonna tell other people about it
but
if you focus on making sure that your
website is awesome that your product is
awesome your service is awesome whatever
it is actually delivers an avalanche of
value to people then you've really got a
chance but a lot of times what people
are looking for is like a slick
marketing technique don't do that man
focus on really making sure that your
website is awesome that is better than
anything else so that every person that
goes there even if it's not their thing
they're like whoa this is great because
then they feel cool telling other people
about it when you can trigger that where
people feel cool about themselves
telling somebody else about your stuff
you've already won all right Joseph
Savino hey Tom any tips on facebook live
I'm going live on Facebook every morning
until the end of the hurricane season to
help with disaster relief efforts
hashtag hurricane challenge you just got
some free promo there is what I named
the challenge that's brilliant so first
of all this is a great example of what
the last person was asking which is this
is how you add value to me and my
community right you ask questions I'm
always asking people to submit questions
so this is huge a great example and now
hey some love for hashtag hurricane
challenge go check this out
it's gonna be all the same things that
we just talked about right so you want
to add value like you're doing now this
is like so meta it's crazy
so yeah add that value and more and more
people slowly over time will find out
that you're doing the Facebook lives at
the beginning of the Facebook live ask
people to share it that's a big one
learn about the Facebook algorithm
that's also a big one so that you really
begin to understand like what of your
content is performing how much of it's
getting out there and then there's
always boosting some of your posts but
I'm guessing if you're doing this for
charity that that would be frowned upon
so I probably wouldn't do that getting
other influencers to get involved with
you is another great way so all the
things that I was just saying it just so
happens that your product is to help
people generate money for the hurricane
disaster relief and I don't know what
you're doing in the lives that's gonna
draw people maybe it's telling human
interest stories or whatever but you
have to make sure that whatever you're
doing in the live is intrinsically
valuable so don't make people suffer
through it just to be able to generate
money make sure that it's in and of
itself interesting all right
Katrina McNew McCoy it's a lot of mix in
that what advice do you give to be
self-disciplined I set goals I write
them down I stay focused for a few days
then completely fail how does one learn
to self-discipline
so first read the book grit by Angela
Duckworth she goes into all the nuance
because essentially what you're asking
is how do you become gritty she goes
into all the new wants in that a big
part of that though is making sure that
it's something that you really care
about and going back to what I'm saying
in the beginning that is such a huge
factor like you've got to care about the
thing you're trying to build
it's got like and when I say care I
don't mean intellectually I mean
emotionally like there's it's got to
emotionally resonate with you so for
instance it probably drives my team a
little bit crazy because I'm always
thinking of new content that I want to
create I want to spend more time
creating content but the fact is the
comments that I get the number of people
that write in saying that the content
has impacted their life that they're
taking action now on something that they
wouldn't have otherwise how they not
encounter the content that is so
addictive to me and when I think about
the studio and what we're building and
how many lives were gonna touch it's
really [__] exciting for me like even
if in fact people already do but even if
an overwhelming amount of people were
heckling me and telling me this was
stupid that I'm gonna fail like it
wouldn't matter like to get those people
that you touch I have such an emotional
response to that that I want to do it so
yeah find that thing that you love doing
and that you would love doing every day
even if you were failing and one of the
ways that I get to this is asking myself
think about how hard it would be to
become the best in the world at
something okay really [__] hard now
ask yourself what do you care enough
about that you're prepared to become the
best in the world at that knowing the
that that 10,000 hours is the minimum
barrier of entry to what they call
mastery but I would say that it probably
starts like real mastery is probably
somewhere closer to the 20,000 hours so
start thinking best in the world is 30
40 50 60 thousand hours so what do you
love enough to really go that hard and
that will solve that problem for you I
just when you love something not much I
promise all right I don't know how to
say this mister in all row I'm guessing
it's something like that
it's from YouTube I apologize for
ruining that name how do you keep going
when you feel lost about what you seek
lack of fulfillment despite doing fine
kind of failed to connect to things I
did in college and kept working just to
keep busy who we're getting a lot of
questions that revolve around finding
something they actually care about so I
have a gut instinct
you need to encounter a lot more stuff
and whether that's building homes in
Peru for needy people whether that's
hurricane relief whether that's
entrepreneur realism installed out there
on that one entrepreneurialism building
something whether that's getting good at
the stock market whether that is being a
teacher like whatever that thing is I go
and counter a ton of different stuff
from as wide a variety of things as
humanly possible also look at your life
like where do you feel most alive and I
can feel that this is gonna be a thing
for me find that thing when you feel
most content most happy where you love
doing it you're sad you're not doing it
anymore what is that thing and once you
identify that thing find a way to be
involved with it directly or in the
universe of things and to do that you
have to stop judging yourself you have
to figure out why you like it you have
to figure out why you don't think it's
okay to like it or why you don't think
it's okay to spend enough time doing it
and I'd be so curious like I'll just
come back to a few simple things so what
are the things that you love doing
outside of maybe sacks like which is
bordering on Universal it's not entirely
but bordering on Universal but the way
to monetize that one is not exactly
drawing people into a fulfilling life so
what are those things is watching TV
like there are many many ways if you can
add value to other people look at how
much some of the biggest influencers on
YouTube some of the highest monetizing
people are video games and film content
TV shows so understanding that that
they're especially now like even if all
you enjoy is Netflix and chill like
there are ways to build an ecosystem
around that and a Kevin Kelly yeah Kevin
Kelly's notion of a thousand true fans
it isn't that you're going to build
multi-million dollar lifestyle out of
delivering value to your thousand true
fans you could build a living so if you
could make sixty to seventy five
thousand dollars a year building an
ecosystem around like netflix and chill'
the best things you should be watching
shows that to watch view like this shows
to avoid explaining to people what the
Netflix algorithm is on whatever but
like if there's a way for you to make
that kind of living doing Netflix and
chill would you want to do it and if
it's not a Netflix and chill what is
that thing reading you could do book
reviews like and look I get I'm going to
the things I give a [__] about but like
what are those things in your life that
regardless of whether you can monetize
it or not you're going to do it then
spend a little bit of time figuring out
how you can actually make that your
living so and then I'll just reiterate
something I've talked about at nauseam
today technique getting so good at
something working your ass off to
develop a skill set that is unique to
you that has value to other people and
then putting that to use and serving
other people that's a big part of
fulfillment all right Daniel breeze what
is up homie always good to hear from you
hey Tom on two-to-one keto how much
protein should I be consuming to retain
muscle even if I consume zero carb it
seems like it's not enough protein
alright so this is a super controversial
so let's start with that
I'll give you an igloo in a two-to-one
ketogenic ratio which for anybody that's
new to keto for every combined gram of
protein and carbohydrate you eat you
would eat two grams of fat so if I eat
one gram of protein one gram of
carbohydrate combined that's two grams I
need to eat four grams of fat to be at a
two-to-one ratio all right so I have
found on a two-to-one ratio it is not
enough to maintain muscle mass let me
finish that statement now kita genex are
considered muscle sparing they're
considered muscle sparing for the
following reason as human animals we
have a very hungry brain meaning that it
requires a lot of metabolic resources in
order to function and the the body has
two fuel sources glucose and ketones so
your body will burn glucose if it's
getting it and if you're not getting it
then your body will go through a process
called gluco
Oh Genesis where it will turn the
proteins found in muscle into glucose so
if you're a typical sugar burner you're
burning glucose and that's your body's
usual fuel source you're gonna have
problems with that in in losing muscle
mass in moments of starvation now as you
go through starvation because the body
had to find a way to deal with this
because if you just have muscle wasting
and you can't a belies all your muscle
to turn it into glucose to feed your
brain you're gonna have a much harder
time surviving a famine so your body has
a backup mechanism that is called
ketosis where it burns through
gluconeogenesis for a bit and it
realizes ok this might be a sustained
period where we have no access to food
so we're going to click over into
ketosis we're gonna start metabolizing
fat and it's body fat which is why you
store that so it turns out into ketones
and your brain can burn those ketones
now because they can always tap into the
body fat that you have you get a very
even response on ketosis now because
ketosis is actually taking you out of
catabolism the muscle it's considered
muscle sparing but I don't know I don't
know if it just reduces the amount of
muscle catabolism or if I just haven't
have shitty genetics I don't know the
answer but when I I went ketogenic for
nine months on a two-to-one ratio I had
never felt better it was awesome the
cognitive benefits from you don't have
the ups and downs of eating when you're
burning glucose so whether I had I was
fascinating by the way but my ketones
are north of 1 so I have no cognitive
impairment I'm probably God I'm not sure
what time it is exactly but I'm about 15
hours into a fast so for people if
you've never done that you realize that
cognitively you'll decline unless you're
in ketosis so now to really come back to
your question so I found that my muscles
got softer after being nine months on
ketosis that I wasn't as strong as I was
when I started and now what I do is I
rotate week to week to week so I'll do
high-protein four and I shouldn't say
for a full week I'll do high-protein for
five days I'm always ketogenic on the
weekends because I spike my calories
really really hard and I find that if I
do that with protein I start to get
inflammation problems so I go
two to one on the weekends regardless so
but five days a week I'm high protein
and then the next week I'll do all five
days all seven days in fact will be
ketogenic but the five days during the
week are also restricted calorie so but
there's a ton of people that will say
that oh no you can build muscle
perfectly on a ketogenic diet so just
full disclosure that's a very
controversial answer but it is it is my
truth as they say all right Shannon
nomadic man if that's really your last
name your last name is pretty cool I
have three endeavors now my photography
my NPO and my artwork I am passionate -
ten - all three but some days I can't
should I scale back if not how would you
suggest to place priority all right so
read the book perennial seller by Ryan
holiday in that book he talks about the
number one things that stops people from
really creating something that lasts is
they're trying to do multiple things
have nothing to do with each other at
the same time so while you can do all
three I would say it's easier to do them
sequentially or to make one serve the
other so if your photography can serve
your NPO that would help and about it we
can scroll back up for a second I'm not
gonna pretend what's an NPO I know what
an NGO is what's an NPO anybody aha
almost certainly correct can't believe
I've never heard that put as an acronym
so yeah probably nonprofit organization
if I had to guess so yeah if you can
make your photography serve your
nonprofit that would be amazing your
photography in your artwork almost
certainly can work together so there's
there may very well be a way to bring
them all together but if you can't bring
them all together I think you have to
separate them alright next up is we're
scrolling our boy will was not prepared
for that bill though what happened all
right
case of on several selvakumar in'
alright that's what i get facebook when
i go through pain doing an activity
whether it be physical or mental pain
what thoughts should I tell myself
during the process of the activity I'm
the type of person that's willing to
suffer from my goals like that's what
I've been telling myself I'd also be
like [__] Goggins would be so proud
of me right now or Goggins would be
mortified by
the weakness that I'm displaying in my
mind but yeah I'm focusing on why I'm
doing it I'm focusing on the result that
I want to get and focusing on my
identity as somebody that's willing to
suffer through that and quite frankly I
say things like dude you're such a
badass for grinding through this or I'm
yelling at myself like come on
[__] what are you doing like
push harder you've got more than this
and the reason I'm doing that is because
I want to be obscenely proud of myself
at the end of it all right Peter
damn ik you had countless conversations
and interviews with successful people
what surprises you most about them I
don't and it's not so much that I'm
surprised because I find that successful
people tend to say the same things over
and over and over it is more that the
the one thing if I was gonna say that
I'm occasionally surprised by is that a
certain percentage of people and I'll
say it's probably sub 30% credit a lot
of their success to the way that they
were born and these are always people
that just work themselves to death so
I'm always surprised by that but that
that's partly just my experience because
I feel like I was deficit 'add heavily
at birth and really didn't discover my
potential until I was in my mid-20s that
just rings so bizarre to me so maybe I'm
a little bit jealous of people that just
have always been that way I don't know
but yeah that every now and then I'll
come up and that surprised me all right
Braham clues that has got to be a screen
name or his last name has zero vowels hi
Tom what was your life's turning point
and that got you into interviewing did
you go all-in or where were there
several events leading towards it well
yeah there were several events so all
right in case you don't know I'm one of
the founders of quest nutrition at Quest
we were really progressive on the
marketing front that helped us grow just
freakishly fast in that though I began
to realize that social marketing was
changing again my team had been
pestering me to step out front for a
long time
I didn't want to do that I didn't want
to be on camera that held no interest
for me in fact it triggered my anxiety
in ways that I cannot even begin to tell
you I remember I used to have to
meditate for like ten minutes before I
could do a periscope live because wow it
just you really used to freak me out and
for the first like five minutes of the
live I would just be in such an elevated
state of anxiety so I really did not
want to do that stuff in the beginning
and I push it off push it off for years
and then finally realized that there was
a shift happening that it wasn't enough
as a company to say we're about
transparency and authenticity like the
easiest way to show that and I could
just feel the change and and honestly I
think the changes is driven a little bit
by Millennials it is driven a crushing
amount by Gen Z and it was when I
started to really understand like where
I think gen Z is going that I thought
alright just a plan for the future I'm
gonna have to step up front now what can
I do that I that I think is better than
most people that I'm gonna have a leg up
on that I could truly get extraordinary
now for reasons of just employing people
I had interviewed well over 1500 people
just like job interview steelo and so I
was very comfortable in that scenario I
was very comfortable with my ability to
read people in real time and then on top
of that I was so paranoid that the
employees at Quest were memorizing so I
wrote the same called the 25 bullet
points which is a belief system you can
actually go to impact Theory calm right
now download the belief system I had
written that out because I wanted
everybody to embody it because it was
what I had to do to my mind to go from
broke employee to building a
billion-dollar business and I knew that
that was gonna serve people no matter
where they went whether they worked you
know there or here at impact theory or
anywhere it's just it will serve them
but I was worried that they would know
what bullet point number 13 was but they
wouldn't actually be living it and so
and that's actually what started
happening so I wanted to bring on
successful people that would without any
prompting from me would be reiterating
the same things that I was saying so I
think there are the universal principles
of success then on top of that ad that I
really I have a firm belief if you get
me in the room with somebody I can
convince them of what I'm trying to
build so whether that's quest whether
that's impact
if you get them in the room with me they
will feel my [__] passion and they
will see that I have the ability to pull
it off but you have to get them in the
room with me even this content isn't
enough and when somebody's in the room
with me and this is just self belief I
just no man between what I can read from
them between how I can learn about them
before they walk in the door so that all
I will impress them I'll just be very
very frank I will impress them with the
amount of research that I've done and by
the way this all started when it was
just business meetings so I knew that
about myself I could impress them in a
meeting I just needed to get them in the
[__] room and so that was a way I
could see what was going on socially
that podcasts were becoming a bigger and
bigger thing that I could do it on video
and that I could do it in front of a
studio audience which in the beginning
was a really big thing for me and we
just have much bigger audiences than we
have now
things change so anyway all of that adds
up to and now I'm an interviewer I'll
just stop there but that that was sort
of how that process went and it is
translated brilliantly in some of the
the most amazing relationships I've
built or from people that sat across
from me on the couch and that was my
first chance to really make an
impression on them all right Chris
waetford YouTube what's your scoop on
nootropics and the phenomenon of micro
dosing PS come and see us in Sydney in
2018 dude I'm desperate for a reason to
go to Australia I've never been it would
be really really amazing I just need an
opportunity to present itself okay so I
don't [__] with nootropics that's the
truth and I got hit up oh god I could
have made so much money a company that
is doing very well hit me up to
basically be a frontman for them and the
truth was I just don't take supplements
wah wah wah
and since I'm all about authenticity and
protecting my reputation long-term I was
I was so grateful that they thought I
mean I was so thoughtful especially
because what they liked was my obsession
with neuroscience and look if there was
something that was real and that I
didn't think had side effects I would do
it in a heartbeat and I have by the way
it's the one drug I have tried I tried
or I should say one interpret because I
have I've smoked weed three or four
times I [__] hate it by the way and
only ever do it to be social
but I tried Bill vu come through for me
what was it
modafinil I tried modafinil and that I
actually wanted to develop an addiction
to if it had been better I would be
addicted to modafinil because the
promise was that you wouldn't need to
sleep and if there's anything I resent
in life it isn't having to work hard
I don't even resent having to workout in
the gym as much as I resent having to
sleep so I tried it but it while it like
you don't really notice as much that
you're tired I still found that like
cognitively I wasn't optimized it's not
ideal that's just the truth so yeah I
don't do nootropics I haven't micro
dosed that is purely because I'm a
chicken so I am just afraid of when he
says micro dosing he's referring to
psychedelics I'm a chicken and I am
intrigued I have to be honest and every
time that I spend time with Jamie
wheel-like I really want to do it and
God could he possibly like if I were
gonna do it with him maybe but yeah I'm
a chicken all right
Sasha Crespi YouTube hey Tom I'm a 20
year old entrepreneur magician and
author you are my kind of [__] person
Sasha yeah we have a distressing amount
in common I now have a lot of anger
stored and ready to be used interesting
I didn't see that coming practically
speaking how do I use it as Drive and
life slash entrepreneurship all right
it's the 80/20 principle B so the dark
side is very powerful but it is also
very destructive so you have to be
really really careful I spend 80% of my
time focused on the things that are
beautiful in my life the things that are
going right the things that I'm grateful
for the way that I want to give back to
the world all of that I spend twenty
percent of my time placing a chip firmly
on my shoulder being really pissed off
with where my life is being really angry
about how little I've accomplished so
far in my life and pushing myself to go
harder so I think that that that is
about right from the balanced
perspective so they say that you're
about five times more likely to believe
something negative than you are to
believe something positive so be very
very careful don't let that anger
consume you because it will become
corrosive
it will make you capable of less it will
make you if you take it too far it will
be so that people don't want to be
around you so be very very careful but
if you split it 8020 that's roughly
right all right
twitchy scroll master is that the one
we're sticking on now well you guys
can't see his off camera my boy William
here is scrolling like a [__] drug
addict and so it just keeps like
bouncing back and forth right he was
thinking here all right Dan bro what is
up homie always good to hear from you
I'm currently reading stealing fire you
just going on themes here my man respect
all right what are your thoughts on how
they get into flow all right so I'm
assuming he means how they gotten to
flow in the book so the book was written
by Jamie Weil and Steven Kotler it's a
really fascinating book and they talked
about how there are multiple ways you
can get into flow if you guys don't know
chicks at me hi he's sort of the
godfather of flow he wrote a book called
flow Steven Kotler followed that up with
something called rise of Superman which
is all about getting in the flow States
and then stealing fire is really sort of
a macro level view of the different ways
that people can get in the flow
psychedelics is one of the ways they
talk about but they also talk about
meditation
they talk about extreme sports all
things that are they say different
doorways to the same thing which is
where you're oh summarize by saying you
get the biggest bang for your buck you
have creative insights your your active
conscious mind shuts down like if you've
ever noticed like in fact I can [__] you
up I just saying where are your hands
right now and all of a sudden it becomes
awkward like you don't know where to put
your hands so you're typically existing
in a state of flow with where to put
your hands and so things like that can
be taken out to the extreme so if you're
a writer in fact we just had somebody
who's an author one of the ways to get
into state of flow as a writer is to get
completely absorbed in the story itself
and I think Stephen King gives words to
this the best when he says he doesn't
know where the ideas come from he
literally feels like he's channeling
them and that's the conscious mind
shutting off and the story just
presenting itself now I think it's
probably just presenting itself from the
subconscious mind but nonetheless you're
getting out of that conscious mind into
the subconscious where things flow more
effortlessly where you can be more
creative make more cross connections so
ways to get into flow States are going
to be different for everybody but
concentration getting completely lost
and absorbed which is why extreme sports
works because if you're thinking if
you're not 100% focus on what you're
doing at that moment you will die that
has a way of really capturing people's
attention so whatever it is for you
that's ultimately going to trigger that
state of flow I can't say if you're not
as big of a chicken as me you can
certainly try getting into a flow state
through psychedelics I do it through
meditation I've found that very useful
for creative thinking and then I find
that I go in and out of flow and that
it's all about concentration shutting
off the rest of the world putting on
headphones for me is a huge thing
listening to things that don't have
lyrics a lot of times if you see me with
my headphones on am either listening to
scores from movies or I'm listening to
the sounds of nature which really really
helps me Zone in there are times where I
would listen to the sounds of nature
even if I'm in a room and it's like 3:00
a.m. and it is totally quiet there's
nothing making noise I will still put on
the sounds of nature so I don't know if
that's something that's hardwired but
that's something that really helps me
alright Devon vert Facebook is there an
ideal environment for success like I
know the like-minded people but do I
need to be in a big city given that I
want to attain monumental success
alright there's no one-size-fits-all but
I will say that being in US in in a big
city is gonna put you into contact with
a lot more people which I have found is
very very helpful but if I'm honest the
thing that I think is the greatest
predictor of success has nothing to do
with the city has nothing to do with
your physical environment it has
entirely to do with how much time you
spend acquiring skills so that's both
being very thoughtful and thinking and I
get it that's a contradiction of my
earlier thing and then having a bias
towards action which is completely what
I was trying to say earlier but having
those two things is absolutely critical
so I will channel my boy Warren Buffett
for a second and say that he keeps some
absurd like 2/3 of his calendars just
blank it is time for him to really dive
into the data to really think about
where he wants to go what he wants to
invest in where markets are shifting
towards and he says not having that time
is is criminal now I will say that's
coming from the mouth of somebody who's
not afraid to act not afraid to invest
not afraid to pull the trigger
so he's do
doing doing constantly but you do need
to give yourself the time to really
think about where you need to be to be
strategic but then go out and actually
acquire those skills so the ideal
environment for success is whatever your
dojo is for that thing that you're
trying to get good at that's that so
whether that's engaged in business
whether that's out on the track and
field whether that's lost in nature
whatever it is like whatever is actually
going to help you acquire the skills to
get so good you can't be ignored to
become truly capable of the
extraordinary that's it all right what's
my time update you have a clock on your
computer which seems impossible look at
that I have an internal clock
all right everybody thank you so much
for it was amazing to see how many
questions were pouring in absolutely
phenomenal and I do go back and look at
all the comments and things so if you
just have a comment or whatever that you
want to leave know that those do get
looked at thank you guys so much for
engaging I've got new shows and
development by the way which will give
us an opportunity to spend some more
time together which I'm really excited
about that we'll be unveiling in three
to six weeks let's call it so thank you
guys this community is literally my
lifeblood at this point I am so stoked
to have you it means the world so thank
you for engaging if you haven't already
be sure to subscribe and if you guys
would we're really trying to grow this
community we're trying to hit a hundred
and fifteen thousand on YouTube by
October first that is nine mission
impossible at this point but we're
running a competition that's going for
the next three weeks to at least get us
air as fast as we can there is a video
that agent Smith had dropped into the
comments send your friends that get them
to subscribe to the channel and then put
your name in that comment box for a
chance to win no matter where you live
in the world
whoever wins and the more time the more
friends you get to drop your name in
every time your name is dropped in
that's an additional entry into the Hat
that we will pull from so you're more
options to win we will fly whoever wins
here to spend the day with me so you get
time in LA and you get to chill with me
for a day it's gonna be [__] awesome
so helped us get to that 115 ideally by
October 1st would be amazing we greatly
appreciate if you haven't already
subscribed be sure to do that and until
next time my friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]
you